>>JAY DYER: Is there a deeper,
hidden, more esoteric meaning
to the Hollywood films
that we all love to watch?
I'm Jay Dyer.
>>JAY WEIDNER: And
I'm Jay Weidner.
And this is Hollywood Decoded.
[THEME MUSIC]
>>DYER: We chose the
Star Wars trilogy
because, obviously, it's one
of the most important trilogies
and film series of all time.
Star Wars-- I think
you can't even
put into words how influential
this series has been.
In many ways, different
than Star Trek, but similar.
But more of a space opera.
So I think it appeals for its
basic archetypal principles.
It's perennial-- it's the
battle of good and evil.
But it also-- just
like other stories
that we've talked about,
like The Lord of the Rings--
it deals with prophetic
elements, things
that could warn us
about the future
and tyrannical governments.
But it also provides a positive
spiritual message, overall.
>>WEIDNER: Yeah.
You have to remember the context
of when this movie came out.
We had just come out
of the Vietnam War.
And I think that this was
a very appealing idea.
Lucas was also involved
in Apocalypse Now, which
is also a very similar plot.
And I think that Lucas
is trying to tell us--
show us-- that no matter
how powerful you are,
you can still be defeated by
the lowest of civilizations--
similar to Lord of the Rings.
>>DYER: Right.
What Tolkien was telling us.
Yeah.
>>WEIDNER: What's interesting
about this film, also,
is the relationship--
of all the films--
is the relationship
that they have
to the works of Joseph Campbell,
and his "Hero's Journey" work.
Lucas was incredibly influenced
by Joseph Campbell-- even
inviting him to
Skywalker Ranch, where
they shot a series of
interviews with Bill Moyer right
before Joseph Campbell died.
That's how much Lucas
liked Joseph Campbell
and his whole
evocation of the hero,
and what the hero
has to go through.
>> Do you, when you look at
something like Star Wars,
recognize some of the themes of
the hero throughout mythology?
>> Well, I think that George
Lucas was using standard
mythological figures.
The old man as the advisor--
well, specifically,
what he made me think of
is the Japanese swordmaster.
>>WEIDNER: And in
Campbell's work,
he shows that the
hero is usually--
doesn't have parents.
There's these certain kinds of
archetypes t that Luke has--
that the hero has to
have-- in order for him
to have a successful
hero's journey.
And Luke is definitely the hero.
But the movie, and the
series, is not about Luke.
As you pointed out to
me in previous talks,
before we did
this, this series--
the first series, the first
three of the trilogy--
are about Darth Vader.
>>DYER: They are.
And that's one of the reasons
it's a positive message,
is because it's a
story of redemption,
that's very unexpected.
The character Darth Vader,
although is completely wicked,
completely ominous
throughout the series, it's--
in a weird twist of Providence--
the only way that the
empire could be taken down
is through the character
of Darth Vader.
And so that's what
we're going to see when
we get to Return of the Jedi.
But to begin with,
in Star Wars--
I'm glad that you mentioned
the Joseph Campbell aspect--
because Joseph Campbell is
really just a restatement
of Carl Jung, on many levels.
And so what we're
going to see, here,
is a lot of the
archetypes from Jung,
that we've seen in
so many other films.
And this is, again, very popular
in Hollywood, very popular
in literature.
So it's not a big surprise.
But there's also going to
be a technological warning
from this series,
and there's also
going to be statements about
politics and social order,
as well as esoteric,
hermetic concepts.
I think that we're going to have
warnings about transhumanism.
The Death Star is,
obviously, I think,
an analogy for the
military-industrial complex--
for the machine of
war, that we've heard
mentioned in other shows.
And so I think that it-- again,
it functions on so many levels.
But because it's such
a basic space opera,
that's why it has
such a wide appeal.
And it's a great message.
It's one of the best--
I think, one of the
best films ever made.
>>WEIDNER: Yeah.
I like the whole idea
of the way that Lucas
brought in, you know,
the spiritual concepts
of the Force.
And that there is
this ether around us.
In hermetic-- in
hermeticism, they
believe that the element
that is surrounding us
is not just empty space.
It's an ether.
And that you can
manipulate that ether.
We do manipulate that ether--
with language, for instance.
Using words, we're
pushing the ether
around the space between us.
And Lucas is showing
that, with your mind--
a well-disciplined mind-- you
can achieve amazing things
in the physical world.
And this is essentially
a spiritual idea.
And it comes from the east.
And Lucas must
have been studying,
not just Joseph Campbell, but
it looks like Zen Buddhism,
and Taoist practices.
>>DYER: Absolutely.
>>WEIDNER: And taking those,
and incorporating them in.
Now, if Campbell was the one
that said, hey, you know,
George--
go do this.
Then, you know-- kudos to him.
Because it was a
brilliant idea to bring
in these eastern things.
>>DYER: Yeah.
Just like in The Lord of the
Rings, we're going to have,
on the one level, a kind
of political warning.
And this is going to be based on
the transition of the old Roman
republic, out of a republican
form of government,
into an imperial
form of government.
Right?
Which, we all know about
"crossing the rubicon."
That's where that
phrase comes from,
where they move out
of the old republic
and into the new order--
which is a tyrannical empire.
And for our day, the reason that
that is relevant is that Lucas
himself has said, in interviews,
back when the prequels came
out-- even though we're not
talking about the prequels--
he did admit that it
did deal with 9/11,
and the post-9/11 world.
So it's very much a warning.
I think the old films
are a warning, too.
And it's this machine of war,
it's this transhumanist tech
domination-- this control grid--
that he's warning us about.
So let's look at the
first clip, which
is going to show that--
that this station is now
the ultimate power
in the universe.
>> Any attack made by the rebels
against the station would be
a useless gesture, no
matter what technical data
they've obtained.
This station is now the
ultimate power in the universe.
I suggest we use it.
>> Don't be too proud of
this technological terror
you've constructed.
The ability to destroy a
planet is insignificant next
to the power of the Force.
>> Don't try to frighten us
with your sorcerer's ways,
Lord Vader.
Your sad devotion to
that ancient religion
has not helped you conjure
up the stolen data tapes,
or given you clairvoyance
enough to find the rebels
hidden fortress--
[CHOKING SOUNDS]
>> I find your lack
of faith disturbing.
>>DYER: It's interesting that
most of the guys in the room,
there-- the board room of the
empire, on the Death Star--
except for that guy--
they speak-- they
have a British accent.
So I think there's a nod to the
British empire, the collapse
of the British imperial system,
as well, going on, here.
But what's interesting is,
this was around the time
that Immanuel Velikovsky
was putting out
a lot of works that
were theorizing
what he called catastrophism.
That the reason that
we look out and we
see all of this barrenness
on the other planets
and moons is that there
might have actually
been some kind of giant
catastrophe or battle,
perhaps, of some kind.
Very interesting thesis,
and I think, maybe,
that might have been
in the background
of the idea of a giant weapon
that can destroy whole planets.
>>WEIDNER: Well, that's
very interesting,
because it seems rather
dubious that Lucas
could have known about the
exploding planet theory.
Because it really didn't come
into fruition until a year
before Star Wars came out.
The first movie
came out in 1977,
and 1976 is when Tom Van
Flandern wrote his book
about the exploding planet--
theorizing that
the asteroid belt
was the remnants
of a planet that
existed between
Mars and Jupiter,
and somehow it exploded.
Now, what's
interesting is, if you
go look at pictures
of Mars, or the moon,
it could be argued that a lot
of the things that you see--
especially on the moon--
are some kind of
remnants from a war that
happened a long time ago.
Streaks, and weird craters,
and all sorts of things
that Richard Hoagland
talks about, in his work.
And he was friends
with Tom Van Flandern.
And I think that Van
Flandern, near the end,
was also beginning to believe
that, possibly, this exploding
planet was caused by people,
and not by a natural event.
And to have Lucas show us
this in 1977 is amazing.
>>DYER: One things that's
funny about this scene is
that Darth Vader,
himself, is kind
of the embodiment of a
warning of transhumanism--
and even he recognizes that
this technological power is not
the ultimate force
in the universe.
I mean, he's a bad
guy, and even he still
recognizes that there's a
metaphysical, transcendent
power that's above this-- the
Force that we talked about.
And so I think that there's
so much that we don't know,
that you're absolutely
right to bring
in these topics of the
possibility of paleophysics.
Dr. Joseph P. Farrell
has an excellent series
of books on that topic.
>>WEIDNER: Joseph Farrell,
actually, in The Giza Death
Star series, he
postulates that they
use the pyramid to create
a vibrational force that
actually blew the planet apart.
And he's an Oxford-educated
guy, so you have
to take what he says seriously.
Another thing about this
clip that we just saw,
that I think is
interesting, is the guy
is mocking Darth Vader's
religion of the Force,
saying, it didn't help
us, what good is it?
And Darth responds
by choking the guy
with his magical powers.
And if you think
about it, Darth Vader
is always choking people,
throughout the entire series--
sometimes with his hand,
sometimes with the force.
But what he's doing
is he's chopping off
your ability to speak.
And we all know that magic
is associated with spell,
and spells associated
with words.
And what he's doing
is he's making sure
that all vocalizations
stop, and only his reality
is the one that's let in.
And they're sort
of using the force
to stop any opponent
from speaking.
>>DYER: Right.
Right.
One of the things
that stands out, here,
is that we all have fears,
hopes, desires, and so forth--
dreams--
that manifest in a kind of
inner world of symbolism.
This is what Carl Jung really
plumbed the depths of--
the inner world of the psyche.
And the reason that
Lucas looked to Campbell
was because Campbell knew
about all these archetypes,
and he wanted to put
those powerful archetypes
into his space opera.
So what's great
about this next scene
is that we have this battle--
as you mentioned, Luke
doesn't have an identity.
He's lacking his father.
He doesn't know
who his father is.
He's an orphan.
This is the Achilles heel
of many of the heroes.
So what Luke's going to
have to do is face up to,
not just the fear of not
knowing who his father is,
but what if my father
is not a good guy?
What if he's a-- how do
I know that I'm not going
to turn out like my father?
So this is his greatest fear.
And he's not mature enough,
yet, to realize that it's not
a physical confrontation.
It's a spiritual,
psychological battle.
Yoda prepares him for
this psyops test--
which, that's what it is.
And so, like the
hero mythology, he's
going to have to do his
Katabasis-- his descent
into the underworld to face
his primal, subconscious fears.
Am I my dad?
Is my dad evil?
Or am I going to
turn out like him?
And that's what we're going
to see in this great scene.
This is from The
Empire Strikes Back,
and I think it's actually
kind of the crux scene
of the entire trilogy.
>>DYER: Yeah.
In many ways.
[OMINOUS MUSIC]
>>DYER: So what we
have, here, is--
as we said-- every
hero has to descend
to the underworld and
basically either face death,
or some manifestation
of his greatest fear.
And in Luke's case,
it's, as we said--
am I my father?
Am I going to be my father?
And it's almost like
he has this intuition--
he doesn't know yet, but
Darth Vader is my daddy.
[LAUGHS] Right?
So Darth Vader is a
baby-daddy, right now.
>>WEIDNER: Who's your daddy?
>>DYER: But that's
the great challenge,
the temptation that
Luke's going to be
tempted with the dark side.
And Yoda even says
that place, that cave,
is strong with the
dark side of the force.
So it's almost
like the dark side
is kind of tempting,
manipulating, leading Luke
down this path.
That's why we see that Edenic
imagery of the serpent, there.
The temptation of the
serpent in Genesis.
Right?
And then Luke actually
fails this test.
And this is why, I
think, a lot of people--
a lot of critics--
believe that Empire Strikes Back
is the best of this trilogy.
It's precisely because
Luke is not a perfect hero.
He has the Achilles' heel.
He fails this test.
Yoda, later, says, remember
your failure at the cave.
If you try to go fix
things in a quick way,
that's the easy path.
That's going to lead you
down the left-hand path
of the dark side.
Which, in hermeticism,
right, the left-handed path--
that's the dark side.
>>WEIDNER: That
was the part where
he finds out who he really is.
And I think, in the end, we
have to say that Lucas is really
trying to present, not just
good and evil, and the battle
thereof--
but kind of a battle
of archetypes.
And Luke is not the hero
of this movie, essentially.
It's Darth Vader who's the hero.
He's the one that finally kills
the emperor, and saves the day.
And the movie is this
delicious kind of manipulation
of Darth Vader,
towards this final end.
And when he does realize
that transhumanism,
and his own transhumanism,
is not the way to go,
and he destroys the Death Star.
What's interesting, also, about
Lucas, is his use of words.
For instance, "Luke Skywalker"
is a play on George Lucas.
George is a Greek word
that means "earth walker."
And Lucas is, of course, Luke.
So earthwalker Lucas is
actually Luke Skywalker.
And Darth Vader-- if you say it
phonetically, Darth "vah-der"--
it sounds a lot
like "dark father."
So he's kind of
signaling to you,
from the start, that there's
something going on, here.
And, of course, Han
Solo is interesting,
because he's the
independent guy.
He's the solo.
Right.
Right?
And all through this,
Yoda is-- of course,
the 10th letter in the
Hebrew alphabet is yod.
So Lucas is very,
very much aware
of these kind of
metaphysical concepts,
and he's packing
them into the film.
>>DYER: Yeah.
I do want to talk more
about the hermeticism
and the Kabbalistic
element in Star Wars.
But I want to show
this clip, first,
because it illustrates that.
So let's look at "always, with
you, what cannot be done."
>> Oh, no.
We'll never get it out, now.
>> So certain, are you?
[SIGHS] Always, with
you, what cannot be done.
Hear you nothing that I say?
>> Master, moving stones
around is one thing.
But this is totally different.
>> No!
No different!
Only different in your mind.
You must unlearn what
you have learned.
>> All right.
I'll give it a try.
>> No!
Try not.
Do, or do not.
There is no try.
>>WEIDNER: Is this when he
successfully pulls it out?
>>DYER: Yeah.
Well, he gets it--
>>WEIDNER: Halfway up.
>>DYER: --halfway up, and
then it kind of drops back in.
And then Yoda does it, right,
and shows him that, look--
it's all in your mind.
But I want to talk about the
Kabbalistic element, here.
Because yod-- this
is fascinating.
I think this is a coded
reference to Kabbalism
It represents, in a way,
both the name of God,
and Israel in the
biblical, Kabbalistic text.
So, like, in Genesis I,
you have 10 commands that
are given at the beginning.
God says, let there
be, let there be.
Right?
And then, later on, you
have, in a literary reading
of the Bible, a kind
of recapitulation
of a new creation
at Mount Sinai,
where Israel's
gathered together,
and there's a
giving of the law--
10 commands.
Right?
Yod is the 10th letter
of the Hebrew alphabet.
And so if you look
at gematria, which
is the idea of assigning
numerical values
to the letters, you
get a 1 and a 0.
And, in that way, I think,
we're looking at the 1,
which is the first letter
of the Hebrew alphabet--
which is aleph.
Right?
Then if you think about
10, this is intimately
connected to creation.
And then, later,
to God's people--
Israel.
Right?
So Yoda, in many ways, I think,
encapsulates and represents
the good side-- the good people,
God's people, and so forth.
They're always presented
that way in the trilogy.
And I really think
that Lucas is directly
drawing on Kabbalistic imagery.
And that's why the
rebellion is successful--
because they're actually
standing up for what's true,
for these metaphysical,
transcendent principles.
And Yoda makes that fascinating
statement, at one point,
to Luke.
Luke says, is the
dark side stronger?
Because we know that
Luke's going to be tempted.
He's turning over in his head--
maybe I'm on the wrong side,
here.
And Yoda says, no.
It's just quicker,
faster, maybe more sexy.
Right?
But it doesn't achieve
what it seeks to achieve.
It's self-destructive,
ultimately.
So I think that's one of
the most powerful messages
of this film.
And Darth Vader is
the exemplar of that.
Darth Vader is self-destructive.
He chose the dark
side of the path--
of the Force-- but in the end,
as we see, in a twist of fate,
he's the only one that
could've saved the rebellion,
and destroy the Emperor.
Nobody else was strong enough
to destroy the Emperor.
>>WEIDNER: And this is
this Kabbalah thing is also
exemplified in the end of
both Episode IV, The New
Hope, and Return of the Jedi.
When they're destroying
the Death Star,
they have to find this certain
path that gets them to it.
And it's like going
up the central channel
of the Kabbalah.
And they have to
have-- and the only way
you can get to enlightenment
is to go up that central path.
The dark side is going
up around all the Sefirot
in the Tree of Life.
Aleister Crowley, of course,
had the serpent's path,
which was this kind of
varied way to get to the top.
And the enlightened
Jewish rabbis
would tell you, no, no, no--
go straight up the path.
And we can see that,
even in the movie 2001,
it has the Kabbalah
embedded in it.
And the Kabbalah is embedded
in the Star Wars trilogy,
over and over.
But the victory that Luke
has, when he finally blows up
the Death Star, is him
traveling up the central channel
until he gets to Keter,
and then he's successful.
So that is his moment
of enlightenment.
>>DYER: Interesting.
>>WEIDNER: Yeah.
>>DYER: It's also,
I think, emblematic
in the symbol of the Empire.
The Empire's symbol is a
hexagonal cube, kind of turned
on its point.
And that, of course, as
we all know, is Saturn.
Right?
The Empire represents that
control, that dominance,
that sacrificial aspect.
The Empire has no problem
sacrificing a whole planet.
It has no problem
utilizing terror.
At one point, the storm troopers
actually stage a false flag,
and try to blame it
on the sand people.
And Obi-wan explains
that to Luke.
He says, "we were
meant to think this
was done by storm troopers."
Right?
Or, by the Jawas.
This was actually the
Stormtroopers, that did it.
Right?
So again, another
Kabbalistic image, there.
>>WEIDNER: Yes, they're
using all the things
that you mentioned-- but
they're also using magic.
And that's very
important to understand.
And the magic is
represented by the logo
of the Empire, this hex.
And what you do with--
you throw a hex on someone.
And that would be using the
Force in a negative way.
And what a hex is--
it's like a box.
>>DYER: Yeah.
It binds you.
Right.
>>WEIDNER: A cube that
binds whoever you're hexing.
And this is why it's
associated with Saturn.
Because Saturn, they
believed, in the ancient days,
was the furthermost
out planet, which
encapsulated our solar system in
a cube kind of configuration--
"the cube of space,"
they called it.
And Lucas is definitely drawing
a parallel between the hexing
and the magic--
the bad use of magic.
>>DYER: Father Time--
Chronos, death--
Death Star.
Right?
I mean, he's always got
the scythe, the sickle.
Right?
So that's-- the very emblem
of the Empire is Saturn.
It is Saturnian.
>>WEIDNER: And,
strangely enough,
the Death Star has a very
close resemblance to the moon
of Saturn, Iapetus--
including the little hole
in the side, and everything.
But there are
these relationships
between Saturn and Star Wars
that are very interesting.
OK.
In this next clip, we
see that Luke is slowly
becoming a machine, too.
And he's becoming like
his father, Darth Vader--
he's going to be turning
slowly into a machine,
unless he stops himself.
And so he gets his hand
cut off by Darth Vader.
Now, he's getting
a mechanical hand,
and becoming, slowly, a machine.
>>DYER: So this is
interesting, because we
saw in the cave, when he was
tempted and when he failed,
it was because he wasn't
prepared to face up to the fact
that Darth Vader
might be his father.
I might turn into Darth Vader.
The guy who is more machine
that man, is said about him.
We have this warning of
technological dominance,
transhumanism-- is this
a bad path to go down?
And what happens when we
become more machine than man
is that we lose our free will.
We lose freedom.
And that's what the empire is
all about-- tech dominance,
and no freedom.
Right?
They don't want freedom for
the various races and planets.
And so I think we should also
consider the symbolic aspects
of the hand.
So, for example, Manley P.
Hall, in his Secret Teaching
of All Ages, has a whole
section dedicated just
to the symbolism of the hand.
And he talks about
how it, itself,
is the five appendages
of humanity.
We think about the
famous Leonardo da Vinci
image of the Vitruvian Man.
So it's emblematic of
human nature, itself.
And so, for Luke
to lose his hand,
and to have it replaced
with something mechanical,
is, itself, I think, a
warning of transhumanism.
>>WEIDNER: Yeah.
People don't realize that
we have a 10-base counting
system--
Which is also a 5-base
counting system.
Five is, of course,
the number of life--
like the Vitruvian
Man by da Vinci.
But also, if you do
the square root of 5,
You get the phi ratio series.
So this all is about life.
And 5 and 10 are all numbers
that equate with life.
And I think that
Yoda, being yod--
the 10th digit in the Hebrew
alphabet-- is proof of this.
>>DYER: And the replacement
of it with synthetics.
>>WEIDNER: Mm-hmm.
Exactly.
>>DYER: So in this next
clip, what's interesting,
that we're going to
see, is that we can't
underestimate the dark side.
This is something that Yoda
keeps warning Luke about.
He says, don't underestimate it.
It's more clever than you think.
It may not be as powerful
as the good side,
but it's still very clever.
And the Emperor divulges
that this was all a plot.
He led the rebels to
where they are, on Endor,
to be destroyed, ultimately.
So Luke is put in this
position where it appears
there's absolutely no hope.
And the only thing
he can fall back on
is the possibility,
the slight chance,
that there's still
humanity, there's still
free will left in his father.
That's his one, last hope.
And Luke's even willing to
sacrifice his life for that.
>>DYER: Yeah.
>> You want this, you?
don't you?
The hate is swelling
in you, now.
Take your Jedi weapon.
Use it.
I am unarmed.
Strike me down with it.
Give in to your anger.
With each passing moment, you
make yourself more my servant.
[VADER EXHALING]
>> No.
>> It is unavoidable.
It is your destiny.
You, like your
father, are now mine.
>>DYER: So the Emperor
is a master of psyops.
And he knows Luke's psychology.
He knows human psychology.
He's put him in this
position-- by his design,
by his clever trickery--
to where he feels
that there's no hope.
He's hoping-- he's banking
on Luke disappearing.
You're going to be
your father-- that's
the temptation that
the dark side has
been sending the whole time.
And what's so amazing
is that Luke is--
the only reason--
I guess you could
argue that it's both
Luke and Vader who
save the rebellion, ultimately.
But it's only the power of Vader
that could destroy the Emperor.
And that would
have only happened
had Luke been willing
to sacrifice his life.
That's the final trigger
that brings the love back
within Darth Vader.
>>WEIDNER: That's right.
That's a very interesting scene.
He uses love as a
redemptive tool,
causing Darth to finally do
the act that causes the Empire
to fall apart.
Very interesting way to
end the series, actually.
>>DYER: So let's look at this
next clip, which is, itself,
what we're--
Vader's redemption, basically.
The destruction of the empire.
[LUKE SCREAMING]
>> No.
No!
[EMPEROR SCREAMS]
>>DYER: It's a simple message,
but it's a powerful message,
because it's perennial.
It's the fact that sacrifice--
love-- is ultimately what
can overcome any darkness.
>>WEIDNER: Yeah.
That's exactly the message
of the entire trilogy.
It's a very good message,
and I think that everybody--
it's one of the reasons why this
series was so popular, really.
>>DYER: Yeah.
I mean, ultimately,
what we have is
a platonic, Gnostic
conception, here.
Because when any of the
Jedi die, or pass on,
they leave their
temporal, physical body.
They sort of vaporize.
Right?
And you think they
might be dead.
But no-- they actually appear
as these blue, translucent
spirits.
Right?
So the film is
presenting an afterlife.
And it presents, actually,
the redemption of Darth Vader.
And I've argued for a long time
that the whole trilogy, really,
is about the redemption
of Darth Vader.
It's that even if we're
mired in wickedness,
we're mired in evil,
it's not too late.
There's still good within us.
There's still
humanity within us.
We can still reconnect with that
transcendent source and power
that created us.
>>WEIDNER: Yeah.
And I like the idea
that when Obi-wan dies,
he becomes a helper
in the afterlife.
Which is a very Gnostic
idea-- that the spirit
can go on, and help people
that have been left behind.
>>DYER: My takeaway
from this is not just
that it's a popular space
opera, and it's fun to watch,
and I grew up with this,
but that it actually
speaks to perennial
problems of mankind.
To universal
philosophical questions.
To good and evil.
And it does it in a way
that, on the one hand,
is appealing to children, but
it's also very sophisticated.
It's very adult, in many ways.
And no matter how evil, no
matter how wicked we are,
what this series tells
us is that evil--
domination, dominating
other people
by your willpower--
that's actually a ruse.
It's a trick.
It's encapsulating
what Yoda tells Luke--
that it's quicker,
faster way, perhaps,
to a limited span of
power, but ultimately it
doesn't get you anything, and it
ends in your self-destruction.
And what makes people
go on in the afterlife,
live on into eternity--
the good guys--
is love.
>>WEIDNER: Yeah.
It's a deep, mythological opus,
disguised as a science fiction
space opera for kids.
And that's why adults liked it--
because they could see and feel
that there was something
deeper going on,
in this so-called children's
show, that was happening.
And I think that's why it
is so successful-- because
of that deeper
meaning that it has.
>>DYER: Join us again, next
time, on Hollywood Decoded.
I'm Jay Dyer.
>>WEIDNER: And I'm Jay Weidner.
Thanks for watching.
[THEME MUSIC]